From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
English programmer, venture capitalist, and essayist

                        Paul Graham
[220px-Paulgraham_240x320]
Paul Graham, c. 2007
      Born       (1964-11-13) November 13, 1964 (age 58)^[1]
                 Weymouth, Dorset, England^[2]
  Citizenship    British
                 American
   Education     Gateway High School
   Alma mater    Cornell University (BA)
                 Harvard University (MS, PhD)
                 Viaweb
   Known for     Y Combinator
                 Hacker News
                 Hackers & Painters
     Spouse      Jessica Livingston (m. 2008)
Scientific career
     Fields      Computer science
     Thesis      The State of a Program and Its Uses (1990)
Doctoral advisor Thomas E. Cheatham Jr.
    Website      paulgraham.com Edit this at Wikidata

Paul Graham (/ɡræm/; born 1964)^[3] is an English computer scientist, essayist,
entrepreneur, investor, and author. He is best known for his work on the
programming language Lisp, his former startup Viaweb (later renamed Yahoo!
Store), co-founding the influential startup accelerator and seed capital firm Y
Combinator, his essays, and Hacker News.

He is the author of several computer programming books, including: On Lisp,^[4]
ANSI Common Lisp,^[5] and Hackers & Painters.^[6] Technology journalist Steven
Levy has described Graham as a "hacker philosopher".^[7]

Graham was born in England, where he and his family maintain permanent
residence. However he is also a citizen of the United States, where he was
educated, lived, and worked until 2016.

Education and early life[edit]

Graham and his family moved to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1968, where he later
attended Gateway High School. Graham gained interest in science and mathematics
from his father who was a nuclear physicist.^[8]

Graham received a Bachelor of Arts in philosophy from Cornell University^[9]^
[10] (1986).^[11] He then attended Harvard University, earning Master of
Science (1988) and Doctor of Philosophy (1990) degrees in computer science.^[9]
^[12] He has also studied painting at the Rhode Island School of Design and at
the Accademia di Belle Arti in Florence.^[9]^[12]

Career[edit]

In 1996, Graham and Robert Morris founded Viaweb and recruited Trevor Blackwell
shortly after. They believed that Viaweb was the first application service
provider.^[13] Viaweb's software, written mostly in Common Lisp, allowed users
to make their own Internet stores. In the summer of 1998, after Jerry Yang
received a strong recommendation from Ali Partovi,^[14] Viaweb was sold to
Yahoo! for 455,000 shares of Yahoo! stock, valued at $49.6 million.^[15] After
the acquisition, the product became Yahoo! Store.

Graham later gained notice for his essays, which he posts on his personal
website. Essay subjects range from Beating the Averages,^[16] which compares
Lisp to other programming languages and introduced the hypothetical programming
language Blub, to Why Nerds are Unpopular,^[17] a discussion of nerd life in
high school. A collection of his essays has been published as Hackers &
Painters^[6] by O'Reilly Media, which includes a discussion of the growth of
Viaweb and what Graham perceives to be the advantages of Lisp to program it.

In 2001, Graham announced that he was working on a new dialect of Lisp named
Arc. It was released on 29 January 2008.^[18] Over the years since, he has
written several essays describing features or goals of the language, and some
internal projects at Y Combinator have been written in Arc, most notably the
Hacker News web forum and news aggregator program.

In 2005, after giving a talk at the Harvard Computer Society later published as
How to Start a Startup, Graham along with Trevor Blackwell, Jessica Livingston,
and Robert Morris started Y Combinator to provide seed funding to a large
number of startups, particularly those started by younger, more technically
oriented founders. Y Combinator has now invested in more than 1300 startups,
including Reddit, Twitch (formerly Justin.tv), Xobni, Dropbox, Airbnb and
Stripe.^[19]

BusinessWeek included Paul Graham in the 2008 edition of its annual feature,
The 25 Most Influential People on the Web.^[20]

In response to the proposed Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), Graham announced in
late 2011 that no representatives of any company supporting it would be invited
to Y Combinator's Demo Day events.^[21]

In February 2014, Graham stepped down from his day-to-day role at Y Combinator.
^[citation needed]

In October 2019, Graham announced a specification for another new dialect of
Lisp, written in itself, named Bel.^[22]

The Blub paradox[edit]

Graham considers the hierarchy of programming languages with the example of
Blub, a hypothetically average language "right in the middle of the
abstractness continuum. It is not the most powerful language, but it is more
powerful than Cobol or machine language."^[23] It was used by Graham to
illustrate a comparison, beyond Turing completeness, of programming language
power, and more specifically to illustrate the difficulty of comparing a
programming language one knows to one that one does not.

    ...These studies would like to formally prove that a certain language is
    more or less expressive than another language. Determining such a relation
    between languages objectively rather than subjectively seems to be somewhat
    problematic, a phenomenon that Paul Graham has discussed in "The Blub
    Paradox".^[24]^[25]

Graham considers a hypothetical Blub programmer. When the programmer looks down
the "power continuum", they consider the lower languages to be less powerful
because they miss some feature that a Blub programmer is used to. But when they
look up, they fail to realise that they are looking up: they merely see "weird
languages" with unnecessary features and assumes they are equivalent in power,
but with "other hairy stuff thrown in as well". When Graham considers the point
of view of a programmer using a language higher than Blub, he describes that
programmer as looking down on Blub and noting its "missing" features from the
point of view of the higher language.^[24]

Graham describes this as the Blub paradox and concludes that "By induction, the
only programmers in a position to see all the differences in power between the
various languages are those who understand the most powerful one."^[24]

The concept has been cited by programmers such as Joel Spolsky.^[26]

Personal life[edit]

In 2008, Graham married Jessica Livingston.^[27]^[28]^[29] They have two
children, and have been living in England since 2016.^[30]^[31]
